So we want to do is try we
have a game of a screen.
It'd be cool to also have
a game start screen or
like something along the the ability
to restart the game.
A big piece of that is just
separating out the logic for
starting the game and
the actual start of the program.
So we can pull this off.
It's actually super simple,
he says have never done it like
this version of this game before so
say when i receive like
a new message game start.
Cool, and so that will go in, no,
we don't want that,
where did my game start go?
Game, when I receive game start,
we'll go ahead and
have that actually do the setup motion.
So now, when we hit the green flag,
we'll just broadcast game start.
>> And then you can add things to it.
You can add things like starting things or
whatever.
Like what the game's called or-
>> Yeah,
you can have a start screen
that they see beforehand.
>> Like how to play the game or something.
>> Exactly, you have instructions.
>> Just like what I did with
one of my games except at so
many broadcasts It just got stuck.
>> [LAUGH] Yeah,
you have performance issues.
>> It was so complex that it
had trouble on performing it,
it kind of just got stuck on things
>> There are,
as a side note, there's the scratch
add-ons and the Chrome extension.
And you could actually enable performance
tools and debugging and all bunch of other
stuff in here as well and like modify and
get a whole bunch of other stuff.
We could actually triage
those things as well.
So let's see.
We don't actually want it to,
Stop all just yet,
because that will actually literally
stop the script, so get rid of that.
And what we can do is, we could say,
when everyone gets a game over,
they all hide, right?
And so we've got a game start.
And so now for everyone involved,
Pico knows about this already.
And when he gets a game over,
we're going to hide him.
When we get a game start,
we're gonna show him.
Now, we could create clones and
stuff like that as well.
I think this will get most of the trick
done without getting too in the weeds.
So game over will hide them,
game start will show them.
Go to the snake.
Start out by hiding the snake,
cause that's not playing yet either.
And when the game starts, we'll show it.
Actually, we can,
This part doesn't really matter
'cause it's about when the game starts.
So actually we'll see if I regret that.
When I receive Game start, we'll show,
and when I receive, Game Over, we'll hide.
It might want to add a stop
the script in there as well.
We'll find out in a second.
Let's just get all the mechanics working.
So we'll show the game over.
Or hide it when the game starts again.
And then we can wait for like an S key or
something like that to
start the game over again.
I can do that only one game over is
currently set, or I can just let them
restart whenever in case they're like I
would like to start from the beginning,
let's go with that.
So let's see, We could do a loop in there.
There's a bunch of ways I could do this.
I'm going to try this out.
Yeah, we could keep track of whether
the game has started or stopped.
I'm not going to do any of that.
We'll just say, if they hit the button,
it will give them the ability
to start the game over again.
I think I'm gonna keep it
as its own thing, though.
Not space bar, though.
When A key is pressed,
we're gonna broadcast Game Start.
All right, let's try this out.
I might have to debug a few seconds,
but let's see.
All right, and so
hopefully he gets hit, game over.
Everything vanishes, right?
I could even change the backdrop if I
wanted to, to something that makes sense.
Did we end up stopping all though?
Let's see.
I think we gotta stop the script though.
Because otherwise you see
that loop is still running.
So let's go ahead and stop all this,
also stop this script or
stop other scripts in this sprite.
Let's go with that.
Let's do that here as well.
Let's see if that changes things for me.
All right, get hit.
When I hit game over, we'll show.
Clear so far.
I might have to debug it for a second but
we'll figure out can you start with Hi
game over we receive, It worked.
I was just hitting essence that because
I wasn't looking at my keyboard.
So now we have the ability we could
put a message in there as well.
So we get hit a will start
the game over again.
So now you don't have to constantly go
the flag starting stopping start to put
different mechanics for levels in there.
You could show different things so for
instance I've got a backdrop
where the ground is black.
I could theoretically switch
backdrops based on levels, right?
You also in the dinosaur game after a
certain score 500 or so like pterodactyls
>> 200.
>> 200, but isn't there at a certain
point it changes tonight to?
>> Yeah, so there's like various
different things you can trigger so
you're not just bound by the green flag
to start and the red stop sign to stop.
You can just stop a loop.
But then you can also use
the messages to restart it.
You can do different stages.
Is and trigger stuff so
you can begin to like slowly build.
That's why we're kind of going for
like a wide range of different techniques.
And then depending on the game, you're
building the mechanic you want to do,
you can kind of like snap different pieces
of this together in different ways.
For the most part, they're like,
let's talk about ways we could extend this
way before like we have different costumes
so every time it starts over,
it's maybe of a different height.
I chose the snake which is there wasn't a
lot of options there, but I could choose,
like, I could make a cactus
sprite of different heights.
You saw my little angry,
angry little stone things that
I was using in a previous one.
You could have could rotate
a random costume every time.
You could have it speed up over time.
A lot of the mechanics that we've
done in the previous games...
I could redo them here.
But you can sort of put them all.
You could actually maybe at
some point have to show up.
It's up to you, and you should play tests,
and you should figure out what works best
for you and should definitely
explore some of that as well.